the finishers job begins with polishing
the body and the keys every angle is
considered as we bring the detail of the
handwork to its final luster
polishing compound is removed in an
ultrasonic cleaner the keys are dried
oiled assembled in line and checked for
perfect operation gold Springs are cut
to length the end is hammered lightly
and inserted into the small holes in the
post the spring tension is balanced
before seeding the pads to hold the
piccolo plans in place I use a hot melt
glue I insert the piccolo pad heat the
cup over an alcohol lamp and flirt the
pad into place
I use a very narrow feeler gauge to
check and adjust for a Great Seal
various shims are placed in the flute
key cup which will allow for adjustments
to the pads at this stage the keys will
be on and off the flute many times as we
perfect the seal this is critical to the
performance and stability of the
instrument testing begins at the
workbench each finisher is a highly
skilled craftsperson
and an accomplished flutist most
important and the largest piece of cork
on the modern flute is the one that goes
on the back what is called spatula this
has to be hand-carved
the instrument then goes to pre-testing
I have checked each key for end and
lateral play then I check key tension
and play test the instrument throughout
its entire range Corrections are noted
when this flute is perfect it's on to
Lilian every headjoint
flute and piccolo passes through my
hands for final testing the protective
tape is removed and the flute is done
you